feat: Add HowTo using server groups (#89)
citynetwork/docs: docs/howto/openstack/nova/server-group.md

> # Using server groups
> 
> Server groups provide a mechanism to group servers according to certain policy.

Reviewer: Since #88, we add a short page description to the YAML front matter, so that it can be included on the page's social card when sharing in a chat or on social media. Like so:

```suggestion
---
description: >
  Server groups provide a mechanism to group servers
  according to a certain policy.
---
# Using server groups

{{page.meta.description}}
```

Author: Interesting. What is the logic behind the line break in the description?

> In {{brand}} you can use server groups to control the scheduling of a group of servers. A server group can have one of four different policies; affinity, soft-affinity, anti-affinity or soft-anti-affinity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In {{brand}}, you can use server groups to control the scheduling of a group of servers. A server group can have one of four different policies: affinity, soft-affinity, anti-affinity or soft-anti-affinity.
```

## Prerequisites

> In order to use server groups you must use the OpenStack CLI, go ahead and make sure you have [enabled it](/howto/getting-started/enable-openstack-cli).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to use server groups you must use the OpenStack CLI. Make sure you have [enabled it](/howto/getting-started/enable-openstack-cli).
```

## Affinity

A server group with the policy of "affinity" will make sure that all the servers in that group are **always** placed on the same physical compute node.

While a policy of "soft-affinity" will **try to** make sure that all the servers in that group are placed on the same physical compute node, but ultimately will allow it if otherwise not possible.

## Anti-affinity

> A server group with the policy of "anti-affinity" will make sure that all of the servers in that group are **always not** placed on the same physical compute node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A server group with the policy of "anti-affinity" will make sure that the servers in that group are **never** placed on the same physical compute node.
```

> With "anti-affinity" you may also configure how many server you want to allow on the same physical compute node using, `--rule max_server_per_host=<number>`, where `<number>` is the amount of servers to allow on the same physical compute node.

While a policy of "soft-anti-affinity", will **try to** make sure that all the servers in that group are not placed on the same physical compute node, but ultimately will allow it if otherwise not possible.

> 

Reviewer: This whole section should really be an Explanation. But since we don't have content in that section yet, I think we want to leave it in this guide now, and then move it as soon as we have some structure in the Explanation section.

Author: Yeah sounds reasonable, the different policies need to be explained somewhere.

## Creating server groups

> To create a server group use the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a server group, use the following command:
```

```bash

> openstack server group create --policy <policy> <server_group_name>

Reviewer: We can be explicit about the policy names, and enumerate them here:

```suggestion
openstack server group create --policy [affinity|soft-affinity|anti-affinity|soft-anti-affinity] <server_group_name>
```

```

## Creating servers using server groups

> To utilize a server group you must specify the group when creating a server, using the "--hint" parameter, applying the server group to a server at creation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To apply a server group policy, you must specify the group when creating a server, as a *scheduling hint.* To do that, use the "--hint" parameter in the following command:
```

```bash
openstack server create --hint group=<server_group_id> [...] <server_name>
```

> Simply add more servers to your server group and you are now utilizing server groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you subsequently launch more servers referencing the same server group, {{brand}} concentrates or distributes them according to the server group's policy.
```

---
description: >
  Server groups provide a mechanism to group servers
  according to a certain policy.
---
# Using server groups

{{page.meta.description}}

In {{brand}}, you can use server groups to control the scheduling of a group of servers. A server group can have one of four different policies: affinity, soft-affinity, anti-affinity or soft-anti-affinity.

## Prerequisites

> In order to use server groups you must use the OpenStack CLI, Make sure you have [enabled it](/howto/getting-started/enable-openstack-cli).

Reviewer: Missed one little punctuation glitch:
```suggestion
In order to use server groups you must use the OpenStack CLI. Make sure you have [enabled it](/howto/getting-started/enable-openstack-cli).
```

Author: Whoops

## Affinity

A server group with the policy of "affinity" will make sure that all the servers in that group are **always** placed on the same physical compute node.

While a policy of "soft-affinity" will **try to** make sure that all the servers in that group are placed on the same physical compute node, but ultimately will allow it if otherwise not possible.

## Anti-affinity

A server group with the policy of "anti-affinity" will make sure that the servers in that group are **never** placed on the same physical compute node.

> With "anti-affinity" you may also configure how many server you want to allow on the same physical compute node using, `--rule max_server_per_host=<number>`, where `<number>` is the amount of servers to allow on the same physical compute node.

While a policy of "soft-anti-affinity", will **try to** make sure that all the servers in that group are not placed on the same physical compute node, but ultimately will allow it if otherwise not possible.

## Creating server groups

To create a server group, use the following command:

```bash

> openstack server group create --policy [affinity|soft-affinity|anti-affinity|soft-anti-affinity] <server_group_name>

Reviewer: With the enumeration of the available policies, this is now a bit too wide when rendering. So we might want to change this to:
```suggestion
openstack server group create \
  --policy [affinity|soft-affinity|anti-affinity|soft-anti-affinity] \
  <server_group_name>
```

## Creating server groups

To create a server group, use the following command:

```bash
openstack server group create \
  --policy [affinity|soft-affinity|anti-affinity|soft-anti-affinity] \
  <server_group_name>
```

With an `anti-affinity` or `soft-anti-affinity` policy, you may also configure how many servers you want to allow on the same physical compute node. To do this, use the option `--rule max_server_per_host=<number>`, where `<number>` is the amount of servers to allow on the same physical compute node.

## Creating servers using server groups

To apply a server group policy, you must specify the group when creating a server, as a *scheduling hint.* To do that, use the `--hint` parameter in the following command:

```bash
openstack server create --hint group=<server_group_id> [...] <server_name>
```

If you subsequently launch more servers referencing the same server group, {{brand}} concentrates or distributes them according to the server group's policy.

## Troubleshooting common issues

> If you keep creating servers within a server group with a policy of `anti-affinity`, you will eventually exceed the total amount of physical compute nodes in the region. The command will still succeed but the server will fail in scheduling, with the following "fault" message: _No valid host was found. There are not enough hosts available._

Reviewer 2: Instead of "but the server will fail in scheduling" I would use "but server scheduling will fail".

Reviewer: I used some slightly clearer wording (I hope).

```console
$ openstack server show -c fault -c status <server_id>
+--------+--------------------------------------------------+
| Field  | Value                                            |
+--------+--------------------------------------------------+
| fault  | {'code': 500, 'created': '2022-12-23T11:21:33Z', |
|        | 'message': 'No valid host was found.             |
|        | There are not enough hosts available.'}          |
| status | ERROR                                            |
+--------+--------------------------------------------------+
```

> This is normal as {{brand}} cannot schedule the server on a different physical compute node because there already is a server in the server group on every node. The same scheduling error and "fault" message will occur when using a server group with a policy of `affinity` as well, when you create more servers than a physical compute node can host.

Reviewer 2: Instead of "because there already is a server in the server group" I would say "because there is a server in the server group already".

Reviewer: Nope. :)

However when using a soft affinity policy, such as `soft-affinity` or `soft-anti-affinity`, the scheduler is allowed to break the server group's policy if it is unable to uphold it. This means you may want to verify that your servers are on the same or on different physical compute nodes by looking at the _hostId_ value of your servers.

```console
$ openstack server show -c hostId <server_id>
+--------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| hostId | 8fae028139411e9e125d5f39895bef79f916aefce6003a7888de105d |
+--------+----------------------------------------------------------+
```

> `hostId` is a unique identifier for each physical compute node. By comparing this value on your different servers you can be sure if your server group's policy is being upheld or not.

Reviewer 2: I think the apostrophe is not needed. So, instead of "your server group's policy" I would just say "your server group policy".

Reviewer: Yes. Updated.

---

> description: >
>   Server groups provide a mechanism to group servers
>   according to a certain policy.

Reviewer: Just to keep the recently added markdownlint testenv happy, make this a one-liner instead.

```suggestion
description: Server groups provide a mechanism to group servers according to a certain policy.
```

> With "anti-affinity" you may also configure how many server you want to allow on the same physical compute node using, `--rule max_server_per_host=<number>`, where `<number>` is the amount of servers to allow on the same physical compute node.

While a policy of "soft-anti-affinity", will **try to** make sure that all the servers in that group are not placed on the same physical compute node, but ultimately will allow it if otherwise not possible.

## Creating server groups

To create a server group, use the following command:

```bash
openstack server group create \
  --policy [affinity|soft-affinity|anti-affinity|soft-anti-affinity] \
  <server_group_name>
```

## Creating servers using server groups

To apply a server group policy, you must specify the group when creating a server, as a *scheduling hint.* To do that, use the "--hint" parameter in the following command:

```bash
openstack server create --hint group=<server_group_id> [...] <server_name>
```

If you subsequently launch more servers referencing the same server group, {{brand}} concentrates or distributes them according to the server group's policy.

## Troubleshooting common issues

> If you keep creating servers within a server group with a policy of "Anti-affinity", you will eventually exceed the total amount of physical compute nodes in the region. The command will still succeed but the server will fail in scheduling, with the following "fault" message: _No valid host was found. There are not enough hosts available._

Reviewer: We lowercase the policy name elsewhere, so we might as well want to do it here, too, to maintain consistency:

```suggestion
If you keep creating servers within a server group with a policy of "anti-affinity", you will eventually exceed the total amount of physical compute nodes in the region. The command will still succeed but the server will fail in scheduling, with the following "fault" message: _No valid host was found. There are not enough hosts available._
```
